ablations generaly: losses hyper params, how we did with oracle on small data for params and methods decision

moshe hnrr analysis in the tex

moshe sent whatsapp to review some paper

fine tune of swint vs from scratch what works best?

be more clear in how we treat nans, its a bit מפוזר 

from all my metrics decide what we keep

two big ones:
1.now that we are not repelling, why not do a and not b where b can be nan as well? sounds smarter, richer signal , more images right?
running it now one for scarch vs one for finetune: nan mode in both is negative
i think adding that to ablations could be cool

2. ways to improve the pair ask claude? algorithmically i mean

better explanation of why we handle nan the way we do in train and eval, or compare addressing it as ignore vs negative

train with a higher lora rank or larger model so we guarantee a sota model

claude's idea for better pair results and better results overall creqte a branch and work from it


validate best results from the paper vs ours

wait for those to finish and analyze:
(base) tomererez@floria:~/normal_near_normal$ tmux ls
c_fixes_for_better_pair_ft_from_swint: 1 windows (created Sat Jun 13 15:23:31 2026) (attached)
claude_Fixes_to_improve_pair: 1 windows (created Sat Jun 13 15:20:44 2026) (attached) REALLY BAD AS WELL, lets wait for the option above to see if its better, its in the other branch btw
labeldot_nanmode_negative_from_scratch: 1 windows (created Sat Jun 13 10:12:39 2026) (attached) WORST OPTION OF THEM ALL GOT AWFULT EVAL RESULTS
labeldot_nanmode_negative_from_swint: 1 windows (created Sat Jun 13 10:14:45 2026) (attached)
(base) tomererez@floria:~/normal_near_normal$ 

run the results of hnm and analyze





notes from meeting with moshe 22.6:

cut vertical spaces between legends and graphs
like the space between the paralel coordinate plot and the legend below it

ablations:
table 9 add our model
validate numbers of tables so it is consistent and no changes between our model

check pair only model on the difficult pairs, from fig 6, those who are red and orange , are in extreme cases of very low if so then report it,  if not maybe lets train models without pair captions?


like figure 1 where we work and cxr fails on composite queries but with actual ours vs theirs which images we retrieve vs them, like 3 examples
cherry picking specific examples and make collage
keep it small in the pdf

move the f1 score to the supplemantarymaterial should be below the bibs and its legal

precision and recall can be moved to the supplemantry

add ablation of the hnm alphas i have the runs

delete hnm margin from the latex

read moshes comments in the tex i need to work on them

figure 3 to supplementary

403 queries?? i have it in hte tex somewhere

need to write the conclusion and discussion

no out of distribution analysis? maybe to round 2 submission we need to add

elaborate less and dont itemize the models in section 6

need to rethink on the way 6th chapter is built, we need less tables there
need to have one big table that shows the results
and some text interpration of the table
textual description of what we are:
better in single, way better in neg, better in robust, as good in pair...
combine tables in 6
less כותרות in chapter 6 less tables, and more textual analysis
6.5 is רשימת מכולת need to use llm to formulate better


in table 11, only use negatives asa negative in eval, not use missing as negaive

naming: ours? losses attract? neg?

ask ai about stuff

